VA-Backed Veterans Home Loans | Veterans Affairs
Skip to Content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
The .gov means it’s official.
Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site.
The site is secure.
The
https://
ensures that you're connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and sent securely.
Talk to the
Veterans Crisis Line
now
Housing assistance
VA home loans
VA-backed home loans
Loan types
Purchase loan
Native American Direct Loan
Interest rate reduction refinance loan
Cash-out refinance loan
Eligibility
How to request a COE
Request a COE online
Check your COE status
Check claim, decision review, or appeal status
Request a decision review
VA help to avoid foreclosure
Warning about refinancing offers
Funding fee and closing costs
Home loan limits
Find VA-acquired properties
Buying a home with a VA-backed loan
Guidance on natural disasters
Disability housing grants
Housing grants
How to apply
Apply now
Check claim, decision review, or appeal status
Request a decision review
In this section
VA-backed Veterans home loans
VA direct and VA-backed Veterans home loans can help Veterans, service members, and their survivors to buy, build, improve, or refinance a home. You’ll still need to have the required credit and income for the loan amount you want to borrow. But a Veterans home loan may offer better terms than with a traditional loan from a private bank, mortgage company, or credit union. For example, nearly 90% of VA-backed loans are made with no down payment. Learn about our different loan programs—and how to apply.
VA home loan types
We offer VA home loan programs to help you buy, build, or improve a home or refinance your current home loan—including a VA direct loan and 3 VA-backed loans.
Learn about the types of VA home loans and how they work
Eligibility
Find out if you can get a Certificate of Eligibility (COE) to show your lender that you qualify for a VA direct or VA-backed home loan based on your service history and duty status.
Find out if you can get a COE
How to request a COE
Find out how to request a COE—and what to do next to get a VA direct or VA-backed home loan.
Learn how to request a VA home loan COE
Trouble making payments?
Get help to avoid foreclosure if you’re struggling to make your monthly mortgage payments.
Learn about how we can help you avoid foreclosure
Last updated:
December 17, 2024